# Data and scripts repository from the manuscript:
> **Multiple lineages, same molecular basis: task specialization is commonly regulated across all eusocial bee groups**
*Natalia de Souza Araujo, and Maria Cristina Arias*

## Repository content

### Data files
- **Bt_fornur_dez16_lncCod_renamed_one.fasta.bz2**: superTranscripts assembled based on RNASeq data from foragers and nurses of *B. terrestris*. Assembly method described in the manuscript.

- **Jt_fornur_dez16_lncCod_renamed.fasta.gz**: superTranscripts assembled based on RNASeq data from foragers and nurses of *T. angustula*. Assembly method described in the manuscript.

- **Bt_fornur.mstat.data**: Estimation of DNA methylation in the supertranscriptome of *B. terrestris* nurse. Analysis method described in the manuscript.

- **Jt_fornur.mstat.data**: Estimation of DNA methylation in the supertranscriptome of *T. angustula* nurse. Analysis method described in the manuscript.

 
### Statistics
- **common.stats.R**: R function used to test overlap significance between DET in the two species. Used parameters in the manuscript are included.

- **expected_GCmethylation.R**: R script used to test wether the mean amount of CG methylation observed is greater than expected based on the proportion of CG sites in the transcriptome.

- **methylation_mean_dev.R**: R script used to test whether the mean amount of C methylation observed in a transcripts subset is significantly greater than the general mean.

- **cor_meth-expression.R**: R script to estimate the Spearman' coeficient between gene expression and mC.

- **GO_enrichment.R**: R script to estimate enriched GO terms among the DET using TopGO.


### Figures
- **mCbarplot.R**: R script to create the DNA methylation barplot.

- **mC_waffle.R**: R script to create the DNA methylation waffle plot.

- **GOplot_fig.R**: R script to create the GOplot graph for third level terms from subgraphs of enriched terms.

- **euler_fig.R**: R script to create the Euler diagram of genes in common.

- **donutPlot.R**: R script to create the donut plots of conserved/ taxaomically restricted genes.

- **REViGO_cytoscape_Bt-Jt-Am.xgmml**: Input code for Cytoscapse generated by REVIGO to draw the similarity network among the enriched GO terms among the DET of all species.

- **all_enriched_subgraphs_Am.pdf**: Subgraph induced by all the enriched GO terms in *A. mellifera* head.


### Others
- **Annocript2TopGo.py**: Python script used to format Annocript output to TopGO input.

- **filter_orthogroups.py**: Python script used to format Annocript output to TopGO input.

- **correct_rooted.tree**: Manually rooted tree used on OrthoFinder.

### Orthogroups
Folder containing the IDs of the orthogroups in each taxonical class.



## License
```
This work is distributed under the GPLv3 license. Reuse of code derived from this repository is permitted under two conditions:

Proper attribution (i.e., citation of the associated publication; see CITATION.cff and above).
Publication of reused scripts on an open-access platform, such as Github.
```



